- So now that we've talked a little bit about
the singleton pattern, let's jump into our ID's and let's
go create some.
So back in our project, let's open up source main java
and our base package and once again as we've done before
we'll create a new package this one called singleton.
Now we're going to create a couple classes in here.
The first one we're going to create is SingA.
SingA is going to be our traditional singleton so we're
going to start with private static SingA instance.
Then we're going to make a private constructor on this guy.
Now we're going to make a public static SingA method
called getInstance and you can see that IntelliJ knows
what I'm doing here.
It's suggesting names of methods and stuff for me.
It kind of gives the feeling that this is a singleton.
But we'll go ahead and continue to create ours so if null
equals instance and I do prefer yoda syntax
with my null checks.
We will now synchronize on the class itself.
This gives us a great spot to synchronize on 'cause that's
static in the cross loader.
Once again, we'll do our null check.
This gives us just a second opportunity now,
to make that we are still null.
And, if we are, instance equals new SingA.
And then at the very end,
we just need to return our instance.
So, if it's null when we come in, we'll create it.
Otherwise, we'll just return it.
Let's go ahead and create another class.
And this one is going to be SingB,
and all we are going to do here is do @component.
Because that means you auto config with SpringBoot,
this will automatically get loaded into the bean factory
with that @ component annotation.
So at this point, it is a singleton when it comes to spring.
And I'm going to prove that to you.
Let's go ahead and open up our test package,
and you'll see that there is a test that came for free
with SpringBoot.
So we're going to use this test to prove to you that
all of these are singletons.
And the way we're going to do that is,
first of all we're going to autowire in
a couple instances of SingB
called SingB1, go ahead and import that.
And, SingB2... and we'll need to autowire that one as well.
So now those two instances are autowired,
so now lets write our test.
So, @test... public void test singletons.
So the first thing that I want to do is do SingA1...
equals SingA dot get instance.
And now we're going to do SingA2 equals SingA dot get instance.
And what we are going to expect here
is that first of all, they are not null.
And, we're just going to check one of them because
the way we're going to write this test,
that will be sufficient.
And that's a static insert on org. J unit,
if you've never used those libraries.
And then we're going to do an assert... same.
And what same says is that these are the same object.
If we go look at the Java doc on this,
you'll see that it says that assert
the two objects referred to the same object.
So this is actually pointers to the same object.
So we're going to say that SingA1 and SingA2 are the same.
And now we're going to do an assert, not null
on SingB1, and I Know that's going to pass because
Spring would have had a problem if it couldn't
of autowired that in.
And now we'll do our same check again.
And now we can run our or mess it.
And we just need to run this one test,
the application contacts will start to inject
in those two sings.
And... Let me expand this window a little bit for you.
And what we expect to see is a green test,
cause everything was the same
that we expected to be the same,
and everything was populated.
And that's how you write a traditional singleton
as well as leverage singletons in the Spring library.
And they are compatible, you can do both of those
if you actually use Java Config to inject your singleton
as a bean.